An artist will use a human model to paint a picture.
An architect assembles a scaled down model to construct a building.
The reason they use models is to visualize the end result.
And so similarly, to put on the new personality,
we need a model to visualize what exactly that means.
Now, why is that?
The watchtower of March 2022 stated,
the new personality is a way of thinking
and acting that reflects Jehovah's personality.
So that's the goal.
But because Jehovah is invisible,
he reveals his wonderful personality in human terms
by means of a model.
And that is Jesus.
Successfully putting on the new personality
involves studying the model.
And this is the point made in Ephesians 4.
Perhaps we can turn to that chapter.
The text for today is verse 24,
but actually the process or starting point is verses 20 and 21,
where it says,
but you did not learn the Christ to be like this.
If indeed you heard him and were taught by means of him,
just as truth is in Jesus.
So these verses imply a process of study and instruction,
just as if we were at school.
We learn, we hear,
and we are taught by Jesus
and we're delighted to be taught by Jesus
because truth is in him.
Repetition is important in any learning process.
So hearing Jesus' teachings over and over again
is essential if we expect to imitate our model.
Completing a work of art
or a construction project,
as we know it takes a long time.
And the reason that putting on the new personality
takes time is because we have to change a pattern of thinking.
You see, as imperfect humans,
we are inclined towards what's physical,
fleshly and materialistic.
So to counter such tendencies,
you notice what verse 23 exhorts us to develop.
It says,
and you should continue to be made new
in your dominant mental attitude.
So we're encouraged to develop a dominant mental attitude.
What exactly does that mean?
In simple terms, it means to make a determined effort
to push our thoughts in the right direction.
We learn and we hear Jesus through good study habits,
but changes require a dominant mental attitude.
Look at this picture for a second. What do you see?
We say our brother, obviously,
a very good student, his books are marked.
He's meditating on what he's reading.
And he's allowing the truth to influence him.
You can almost see there in this picture
that he's making a determined decision
to do what is right.
The new personality can only take shape
if Jesus' teachings touch our deepest emotions.
And that's an unhurried process that requires patience.
Now thankfully, Jehovah is patient.
He's patient with all of us,
giving us a thousand years to reach perfection.
Now, Jehovah's wisdom and patience with people
as they put on the new personality
will become evident in an outstanding way
when the unrighteous ones are resurrected.
And this is the point of discussion in our comments.
The unrighteous include those who had no opportunity
to know God during their lifetime.
I think for a moment who that may include.
According to the Encyclopedia Britannica,
it's estimated that eight and a half million soldiers
from numerous nations died as a result
of wounds or disease during the First World War.
And the most accepted estimate for deaths
during the American Civil War
was estimated at around 620,000.
And that's just a sampling of two wars in history.
Now consider how many millions may be resurrected
whose frame of mind at the time of their death
was to throw themselves into pitch battle against an enemy.
Now they're resurrected.
And Jesus is tasked with overseeing a grand teaching work
to help them learn the ways of peace
and to love their enemies.
How will he do it?
Isaiah 2, as is 2 to 4,
beautifully describes an education process
that has progressive results.
And in fulfillment of that prophecy,
Jesus, it says,
will set matters straight between nations.
And no more will they learn war.
So while we don't expect resurrected soldiers
to engage in bloodthirsty wars,
it's certainly going to take time
to uproot their prejudices
that they had during their lifetime.
Now can you imagine if a Japanese kamikaze pilot
is resurrected?
How will he feel when he learns that the Emperor
he sacrificed his life for during World War II
was in fact not a God after all?
Or a soldier who learns that the religious leaders
who encouraged him to go into battle
will later held accountable by Jehovah
for the blood of those slaughtered on the earth?
So we can see why Jehovah will indeed be patient.
As strongly entrenched prejudices are uprooted,
hatreds are removed and replaced by peace and love.
Now such unrighteous resurrected ones
they too will have to learn about Jesus.
Hear Jesus and be taught by Jesus.
They will have to go back to school.
But the Onus is still on those resurrected ones
to develop a dominant mental attitude
by pushing their thoughts in the right direction.
And I'm sure during that time,
as we see that process taking place
and the effects of Jesus' teaching,
that it will be a real joy to behold.
As has been alluded to,
the video project Good News According to Jesus
may well play an important role in teaching resurrected ones.
And the reason why is because in the New World
all will progressively have to become like Christ.
Now when that resurrection work is complete,
they will reach perfection
and then they will be the final test.
Now it is quite remarkable when you look at this scene
that some who put on the new personality
will actually make a conscious decision to rebel
and again divide themselves into nations
at the instigation of Satan.
He's the one that will foster those divisions.
When you look at that picture,
what you're seeing there is a crowd of people
who've actually developed a new personality
maybe over hundreds of years and become like Christ.
And then they choose to rebel.
How sad that is and what a lack of appreciation
for the education program.
Now interestingly,
the last question in the final chapter of the pure worship book
asked how can you prepare now for the final test?
When we were asked that question,
we may have thought to ourselves,
surely our priority is preparing for the great tribulation.
Maybe we can start thinking about the final test
seven or eight hundred years from now.
Let's go back to Ephesians chapter four.
Verses 26 and 27 offers a reason
why preparing for the final test is good advice.
Verse 26 says,
Be wrathful but do not sin.
Do not let the sun set while you are still angry.
And here's the point.
Do not give the devil an opportunity.
You see anger that festers gives the devil an opportunity
to influence us to commit a serious sin or maybe worse.
By controlling anger we are saying to the devil,
I am not giving you an opportunity to hinder my spiritual progress.
Now think about the resurrected unrighteous ones.
They will be able to put on the new personality
without the devil being around.
And that obviously is an advantage in many ways.
However, the final test will be the first time
that they will be exposed to the devil's attempts
to persuade them to rebel against Jehovah's sovereignty.
So in other words, we have a unique chance
to prepare for the final test by opposing Satan now
before he's abyssed.
Now hopefully our experiences of standing up to the devil
will stand us in good stead over a thousand years from now.
So in summary, allow Jesus to be our model
by learning, hearing and being taught by Him.
This will help us to visualize the end result,
putting on a new personality that reflects Jehovah's way
of thinking and acting.
So let's all of us allow Jesus and Jehovah
to produce in us a work of art.